[flags] FFL-1145: Update documentation (#2955)
DataDog/dd-sdk-android: features/dd-sdk-android-flags/README.md

# Datadog Feature Flags SDK for Android

The Datadog Feature Flags SDK for Android allows you to evaluate feature flags and experiments in your Android application and automatically send flag evaluation data to Datadog for monitoring and analysis.

## Installation

Add the Datadog Feature Flags SDK to your application's `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-flags:<VERSION>"
    
    // Optional: Required only if you want RUM integration
    implementation "com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-rum:<VERSION>"
}
```

## Prerequisites

Before enabling the Feature Flags feature, you must first initialize the Datadog SDK. See the [Datadog Android SDK setup documentation][1] for details.

```kotlin
// Initialize the core Datadog SDK first
val coreConfiguration = Configuration.Builder(
    clientToken = "<YOUR_CLIENT_TOKEN>",
    env = "<YOUR_ENVIRONMENT>",
    variant = "<YOUR_APP_VARIANT>"
)
    .build()

Datadog.initialize(this, coreConfiguration, trackingConsent)
```

> ### Optional: Enable RUM for Integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### (Optional) Enable RUM for the integration
```

If you want flag evaluations to be automatically sent to RUM and attached to views, enable RUM before initializing the Flags feature:

```kotlin
val rumConfig = RumConfiguration.Builder(applicationId = "<YOUR_RUM_APPLICATION_ID>")
    .build()
    
Rum.enable(rumConfig)
```

> If RUM is not enabled, the Flags SDK will work normally but flag evaluations will not appear in RUM views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If RUM is not enabled, the Flags SDK works normally but flag evaluations will not appear in RUM views.
```

## Setup

### Enable the Feature Flags Feature

After initializing the Datadog SDK, enable the Feature Flags feature:

```kotlin
val flagsConfig = FlagsConfiguration.Builder().build()
Flags.enable(flagsConfig)
```

> ### Configuration Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuration options
```

The `FlagsConfiguration.Builder` supports the following options:

#### RUM Integration

By default, flag evaluations are automatically sent to RUM (Real User Monitoring) and attached to the current view, if RUM is enabled. You can disable this integration:

```kotlin
val flagsConfig = FlagsConfiguration.Builder()
    .rumIntegrationEnabled(false)
    .build()
```

> **Note:** This setting only has an effect if you have enabled RUM (see `Prerequisites` section). If RUM is not enabled, flag evaluations will not be sent to RUM regardless of this setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** This setting only has an effect if you have enabled RUM (see `Prerequisites` section). If RUM is not enabled, flag evaluations are not sent to RUM regardless of this setting.
```

> #### Exposure Tracking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Exposure tracking
```

By default, flag evaluations are tracked and sent to Datadog's exposure intake endpoint. You can disable this:

```kotlin
val flagsConfig = FlagsConfiguration.Builder()
    .trackExposures(false)
    .build()
```

#### Custom Endpoints

For testing or proxy purposes, you can configure custom endpoints:

```kotlin
val flagsConfig = FlagsConfiguration.Builder()
    .useCustomFlagEndpoint("https://your-proxy.example.com/flags")
    .useCustomExposureEndpoint("https://your-proxy.example.com/exposure")
    .build()
```

## Usage

> ### Create a Flags Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a Flags client
```

val analyticsClient = FlagsClient.Builder("analytics").build()
```

### Set Evaluation Context

Before evaluating flags, set the evaluation context with a targeting key and optional attributes:

```kotlin
val context = EvaluationContext(
    targetingKey = "user-123",
    attributes = mapOf(
        "email" to "user@example.com",
        "plan" to "premium",
        "age" to "25"
    )
)

client.setEvaluationContext(context)
```

**Important Notes:**
- The `targetingKey` must be consistent for the same user/entity to ensure consistent flag evaluation across requests
- The `targetingKey` cannot be blank or whitespace-only
- All attribute values must be strings - convert numbers, booleans, and other types to strings before passing them
- Common targeting keys include user ID, device ID, or session ID

### Evaluate Feature Flags

The `FlagsClient` provides two ways to resolve flag values:

1. **Convenience methods** (`resolveBooleanValue`, `resolveStringValue`, etc.) - Simple methods that return just the value
2. **Detailed resolution method** (`resolve`) - Returns comprehensive resolution details including error information and metadata

> #### Convenience Methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Convenience methods
```

- Attached to the current RUM view
- Visible in the Datadog RUM dashboard
- Associated with user sessions for analysis

This allows you to correlate feature flag usage with application performance, errors, and user behavior.

**Prerequisites for RUM Integration:**
1. Add the `dd-sdk-android-rum` dependency to your project
2. Enable RUM before initializing the Flags feature (see `Prerequisites` section)
3. Ensure `rumIntegrationEnabled` is set to `true` in your `FlagsConfiguration` (this is the default)

If RUM is not enabled, the Flags SDK will continue to work normally, but flag evaluations will not appear in RUM views.

## Best Practices

1. **Consistent Targeting Keys**: Use consistent targeting keys (e.g., user ID) to ensure users see consistent feature flag values across sessions
2. **Provide Meaningful Defaults**: Always provide sensible default values that maintain core functionality if flag evaluation fails
3. **Set Context Early**: Set the evaluation context as early as possible in your application lifecycle, typically after user authentication

> 4. **Named Clients**: Use named clients if necessary to organize flags by domain (e.g., "analytics", "ui", "experiments")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Named Clients**: Use named clients if necessary to organize flags by domain (for example, "analytics", "ui", "experiments")
```

5. **Attribute Types**: Remember to convert all attribute values to strings before passing them to `EvaluationContext`

## See Also

For more information on Feature Flags in Datadog, see the [official Feature Flags documentation][2].

> [1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/android/setup
```

1. **Convenience methods** (`resolveBooleanValue`, `resolveStringValue`, etc.) - Simple methods that return just the value
2. **Detailed resolution method** (`resolve`) - Returns comprehensive resolution details including error information and metadata

#### Convenience Methods

Use these methods when you only need the flag value:

**Boolean Flags**
```kotlin
val isNewFeatureEnabled = client.resolveBooleanValue("new-feature-enabled", false)
```

**String Flags**
```kotlin
val theme = client.resolveStringValue("app-theme", "light")
```

**Numeric Flags**
```kotlin
// Integer values
val maxRetries = client.resolveIntValue("max-retry-count", 3)

// Double values
val discountPercentage = client.resolveDoubleValue("discount-rate", 0.0)
```

**Structured Flags**
```kotlin
val defaultConfig = JSONObject("""{"timeout": 30, "retries": 3}""")
val config = client.resolveStructureValue("api-config", defaultConfig)

val timeout = config.getInt("timeout")
val retries = config.getInt("retries")
```

#### Detailed Resolution Method

Use the `resolve()` method when you need additional information about flag resolution, such as:
- The variant identifier (e.g., "control", "treatment")

> - The reason for the resolved value (e.g., "TARGETING_MATCH", "DEFAULT", "ERROR")

Author: For constants I've single quoted, but for fields where the user could provide any string I've left the double quotes

- Error codes and messages for debugging
- Flag metadata for analytics

```kotlin
val result = client.resolve("feature-enabled", false)

// Access the resolved value
val featureEnabled = result.value

// Check for errors
if (result.errorCode != null) {
    println("Flag resolution failed: ${result.errorMessage}")
} else {
    println("Flag resolved successfully")
    
    // Access variant information
    result.variant?.let { variant ->
        println("Variant: $variant")
    }
    
    // Access resolution reason
    result.reason?.let { reason ->
        println("Reason: $reason")
    }
    
    // Access flag metadata
    result.flagMetadata?.forEach { (key, value) ->
        println("Metadata: $key = $value")
    }
}
```

**ResolutionDetails Properties:**
- `value: T` - The resolved flag value (always present, either from evaluation or default)
- `variant: String?` - Optional identifier for the resolved variant
- `reason: String?` - Optional explanation of why this value was resolved
- `errorCode: ErrorCode?` - Optional error code (null indicates success)
- `errorMessage: String?` - Optional human-readable error message

> - `flagMetadata: Map<String, Any>?` - Optional metadata associated with the flag

Reviewer 2: I think it will be better to have empty collection here instead of null value.
